Jehovah provides
all of the things that we need
to accomplish our ministry
and to feel secure
no matter what tribulation we face.
We truly have experienced
Jehovah’s loving support
during this pandemic.
Our heavenly Father,
through his organization,
has provided just what we’ve needed
to endure faithfully in our ministry
and to stay strong spiritually.
How has the direction
to shelter in place
affected circuit overseers,
construction servants, field missionaries,
and special pioneers?
How have they been able
to continue in their ministry
serving Jehovah whole-souled and with joy?
What practical lessons have they learned?
To follow the Governing Body’s direction
to shelter in place,
we couldn’t go in to see Steve’s mother.
She was in aged care just ten minutes away
from where we’re based.
She died while we were sheltering in place.
This led to another challenge
—grieving in isolation.
At the beginning
of the shelter-in-place direction,
I had a very difficult time.
I had flashbacks
that were very difficult for me.
During the Vietnam War,
I was imprisoned
because of taking a neutral stand.
I had a reaction to this lockdown
of being confined.
We especially discerned
the value of the direction in November 2020
when, suddenly,
I was taken to the hospital
because of a serious heart disease
and severe pneumonia.
It turned out that my life was in danger.
The doctors evaluated
that if I had contracted the coronavirus
in that condition,
I would not have had a chance to survive it.
While sheltering in place,
how did these obedient brothers and sisters
stay positive
and maintain their physical, emotional,
and spiritual health?
Even through that difficult time,
having Zoom  meetings,
having the meetings for field service,
doing witnessing by Zoom,
and being with the brothers and sisters
—I can’t say enough good about it.
In being able
not to meet an hour requirement
but by going ahead
and being very busy spiritually,
we did a phenomenal amount of shepherding,
strengthening, and upbuilding
our brothers and sisters
—folks literally from around the world
that we knew needed help.
When the Governing Body
removed the specific hour requirement,
I think we felt their trust.
That gave us more flexibility,
and this enabled us to reach out
to relatives not in the truth
and to support them during the pandemic.
And that has led
to two, regular, continuing Bible studies.
I really feel how much
the Governing Body cares for us
every time they mention in their letters
that they do not require us
to reach the required hours.
Many brothers and sisters today are depressed
and experiencing pandemic fatigue.
Usually they need someone
who they can talk to about their problems.
And because of these adjustments,
I now have more time to encourage them
and help them to remain spiritually strong.
Since most congregations I serve
don’t have Internet access,
I make video recordings for all the talks.
I make a simple platform
and set up the microphone and cell phone
that I use to create the video.
Then I stand in front
and start giving the talk.
What blessings did they receive
from their obedience?
I was so happy to start
a Bible study during the pandemic,
especially when I saw how quickly
the student was making progress.
Because of my health,
each study session
was about 15 to 20 minutes long.
I had to find a good place
to conduct the study at the hospital,
mainly in the hallway.
One day after the concluding prayer,
I noticed the door
to a doctor’s office was open.
The doctor was listening
to our whole Bible study discussion.
I was so happy
she attended the study as well.
Recently, in my circuit,
59 Bible students progressed to baptism.
Unity within families is another blessing.
Parents are spending a lot of time
conducting Bible studies with their children.
Our Christian life is compared to a race,
and this is not a short race.
There are unexpected things
that can happen to us.
By striving to obey from the heart now,
we can be prepared to obey the directions
that we are going to receive
in the great tribulation.
We are sure that this is not the last time
that we have to be obedient.
We see Bible prophecies being fulfilled
right in front of our eyes,
and ahead of us are
even greater events
that will bring larger trials.
James 1:2, 3 helps us
despite trials to keep joy
—deep joy—
in our hearts,
and it assures us
that all difficult situations
will help us to work on endurance.
And this quality will help us
to cope with trials to come.
I personally have benefited from following
the Governing Body’s direction.
I’ve actually felt joy every day,
and I can only put that down
to the blessing from Jehovah God
on our efforts to be obedient.
We’ve both benefited
from the direction from the Governing Body
because we trust
that they are
“the faithful and discreet slave.”
Christ Jesus is directing them.
I am so absolutely grateful
to the Governing Body for providing direction
that is blessing every single one of us
around the earth.
Just like you,
these dear ones have made great sacrifices
to continue serving Jehovah
whole-souled during this pandemic,
and no doubt we’ve all learned the value
of applying the words at 2 Timothy 4:2:
“Preach the word; be at it urgently
in favorable times and difficult times.”
For a certainty, neither this pandemic
nor any other difficult times to come
will stop our preaching work
and, more importantly, prevent
Jehovah’s loving care.